documentation/architecture/Tenets.md, before:

# Clickeen Architecture Tenets

> **Purpose**: Authoritative guide for AI agents and developers. All architectural decisions flow from these principles.

---

## Summary Diagram

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    CLICKEEN ARCHITECTURE                        │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                                 │
│   ┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐   │
│   │              TENET 0: EDITING PLATFORM                  │   │
│   │         "Clickeen edits widgets. No fallbacks."         │   │
│   └─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘   │
│                              │                                  │
│   ┌──────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┐   │
│   │                          ▼                              │   │
│   │   ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐     │   │
│   │   │  TENET 1    │  │  TENET 2    │  │  TENET 3    │     │   │
│   │   │ Widget      │  │ Orchestrators│  │ System      │     │   │
│   │   │ Files =     │  │ = Dumb      │  │ Fails       │     │   │
│   │   │ Truth       │  │ Pipes       │  │ Visibly     │     │   │
│   │   └─────────────┘  └─────────────┘  └─────────────┘     │   │
│   │                          │                              │   │
│   │   ┌──────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┐   │   │
│   │   │                      ▼                          │   │   │
│   │   │   ┌─────────────────────────────────────────┐   │   │   │
│   │   │   │           TENET 4: DIETER TOKENS        │   │   │   │
│   │   │   │   "All styling uses Dieter tokens"      │   │   │   │
│   │   │   └─────────────────────────────────────────┘   │   │   │
│   │   └─────────────────────────────────────────────────┘   │   │
│   └─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘   │
│                                                                 │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## Tenet 0: Clickeen Is an Editing Platform

Clickeen exists to **edit and customize widgets**. Users make choices, and those choices are saved exactly as made.

### Why This Matters

```
User Intent → Clickeen Saves → Embed Renders

     ┌──────────────────┐
     │   User chooses   │
     │   red button     │
     └────────┬─────────┘
              │
              ▼
     ┌──────────────────┐
     │   Clickeen saves │
     │   "red"          │
     └────────┬─────────┘
              │
              ▼
     ┌──────────────────┐
     │   Embed shows    │
     │   red button     │
     └──────────────────┘
```

If any system along this path "corrects" or "defaults" the value, the user's intent is lost.

### The Rule

**There are no fallbacks for instance identity or instance config in Clickeen.**

- If a config value is missing → the system fails visibly
- If a config value is wrong → the system fails visibly
- The widget files define everything; orchestrators pass data through unchanged

Note: request parameters (like `locale`) may have a deterministic default (Phase 1: `en`) when omitted. This is not identity and must not create DB fan-out.

### Why No Fallbacks

| With Fallbacks | Without Fallbacks |
|----------------|-------------------|
| Bug is hidden | Bug is visible |
| User sees wrong output | Developer sees error |
| Hard to debug | Easy to fix |
| AI learns bad patterns | AI learns correct patterns |

---

## Tenet 1: Widget Files Are Complete Truth

Every widget is defined by **core runtime files + contract files** in Tokyo:

```
tokyo/widgets/{widgetname}/
├── spec.json              ← Schema + defaults + ToolDrawer panels
├── widget.html            ← HTML structure
├── widget.css             ← All styling
├── widget.client.js       ← Runtime behavior
├── agent.md               ← AI editing contract
├── limits.json            ← Entitlements caps/flags for Paris validation
├── localization.json      ← Locale-layer allowlist (translatable paths)
├── layers/*.allowlist.json← Per-layer allowlists (user/geo/industry/etc.)
└── pages/*.json           ← Prague marketing pages (overview/features/etc.)
```

### What This Means

- Core runtime files contain **everything** about widget behavior
- Contract files define limits/localization; Prague pages define the marketing surface
- No other system adds, removes, or modifies widget behavior
- If it's not in these files, it doesn't exist

### Data Flow

```
┌─────────────────┐
│   Tokyo         │
│ (core files)    │
└────────┬────────┘
         │
         │ provides definition
         ▼
┌─────────────────┐      ┌─────────────────┐
│   Bob           │ ←──→ │   Michael       │
│   (Editor)      │      │   (Database)    │
└────────┬────────┘      └─────────────────┘
         │
         │ user edits instanceData
         ▼
┌─────────────────┐
│   Venice        │
│   (Embed)       │
└─────────────────┘
```

---

## Tenet 2: Orchestrators Are Dumb Pipes

Bob, Paris, Venice, and Michael are **orchestrators**. They move data between systems.

### What Orchestrators Do

| System | Role |
|--------|------|
| **Bob** | Loads widget definition from Tokyo, renders ToolDrawer, stores edits in memory |
| **Paris** | HTTP gateway to Michael (database) |
| **Venice** | Fetches instance + widget files, combines, returns HTML |
| **Michael** | Stores instanceData as JSON blob |

### What Orchestrators Never Do

- Validate widget data beyond basic JSON structure
- Apply default values
- Transform or "fix" data
- Know widget-specific logic
- Generate widget HTML/CSS/JS

### Diagram

```
         Tokyo (Source of Truth)
              │
    ┌─────────┼─────────┐
    │         │         │
    ▼         ▼         ▼
  Bob      Venice    Paris
    │         │         │
    │    (dumb pipes)   │
    │         │         │
    └─────────┼─────────┘
              │
              ▼
         Michael (Storage)
```

---

## Tenet 3: The System Fails Visibly

When something is wrong, the system **stops and shows an error**.

### Why Visible Failure

```
Widget Missing Field
        │
        ▼
┌─────────────────┐
│  System throws  │
│  error message  │
└────────┬────────┘
         │
         ▼
┌─────────────────┐
│  Developer sees │
│  exact problem  │
└────────┬────────┘
         │
         ▼
┌─────────────────┐
│  Fix is applied │
│  to widget file │
└─────────────────┘
```

### What This Enables

- Bugs are caught immediately
- AI agents see clear errors and learn correct patterns
- Widget developers know exactly what to fix
- No silent corruption of user data

---

## Tenet 4: Dieter Tokens Principle

All colors, typography, and spacing in widget configs use **Dieter design tokens**.

### Default Values Use Tokens

```json
{
  "appearance": {
    "headingColor": "var(--color-text)",
    "buttonBackground": "var(--color-primary)",
    "buttonTextColor": "var(--color-on-primary)"
  }
}
```

### User Overrides Allowed

Users can override with RGB/HEX values in controls:

```json
{
  "appearance": {
    "headingColor": "#FF5500",
    "buttonBackground": "rgb(100, 50, 200)"
  }
}
```

### Why Tokens First

| Benefit | Explanation |
|---------|-------------|
| Consistency | All widgets share the same design language |
| Theming | Change tokens once, all widgets update |
| AI-friendly | AI knows valid token names |
| User flexibility | Users can still use custom colors |

---

## System Architecture Overview

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                        TOKYO                                │
│              (Widget Definitions + Dieter)                  │
│                                                             │
│   widgets/           dieter/                                │
│   ├── faq/           ├── tokens/                            │
│   └── shared/        └── icons/                             │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                              │
           ┌──────────────────┼──────────────────┐
           │                  │                  │
           ▼                  ▼                  ▼
    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐
    │    BOB      │    │   VENICE    │    │   PARIS     │
    │   Editor    │    │   Embed     │    │   API       │
    │             │    │             │    │             │
    │ Compiles    │    │ Renders     │    │ CRUD for    │
    │ spec.json   │    │ widget.html │    │ instances   │
    │ to UI       │    │ + CSS + JS  │    │             │
    └──────┬──────┘    └─────────────┘    └──────┬──────┘
           │                                     │
           └─────────────────┬───────────────────┘
                             │
                             ▼
                      ┌─────────────┐
                      │   MICHAEL   │
                      │  (Supabase) │
                      │             │
                      │ Stores      │
                      │ instanceData│
                      │ as JSON     │
                      └─────────────┘
```

---

## The Verification Question

When reviewing any code change, ask:

> **"Does this system know something only the widget should know?"**

If yes → the change violates architecture
If no → the change is correct

### Canonical examples (golden path)

| Change | Why it’s correct |
|--------|------------------|
| Bob renders ToolDrawer from `spec.json` | Bob compiles the widget definition into UI; it doesn’t invent widget semantics. |
| Venice fetches `widget.html` and serves it | Venice passes through widget assets; it doesn’t mutate widget meaning. |
| Paris reads/writes instances as JSON | Paris stores and returns `instanceData` verbatim; widget semantics live in the widget package. |

---

## Platform Auto-Generated Panels

Bob automatically generates these standard panels for every widget:

| Panel | Purpose |
|-------|---------|
| **Typography** | Font families, sizes, weights for text roles |
| **Stage/Pod Layout** | Padding, alignment, width, corner radius |
| **Stage/Pod Appearance** | Background colors/fills |

These panels ensure consistency across all widgets. Widget developers use the standard structure.

---

## Quick Reference

| Tenet | One-liner |
|-------|-----------|
| **0** | No fallbacks for instance config/identity |
| **1** | 5 widget files = complete truth |
| **2** | Orchestrators are dumb pipes |
| **3** | System fails visibly |
| **4** | All styling uses Dieter tokens |

Commit message:

feat: inside fades + prague l10n best-available + us market

documentation/architecture/Tenets.md, after:

# Clickeen Architecture Tenets

> **Purpose**: Authoritative guide for AI agents and developers. All architectural decisions flow from these principles.

---

## Summary Diagram

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    CLICKEEN ARCHITECTURE                        │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                                 │
│   ┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐   │
│   │              TENET 0: EDITING PLATFORM                  │   │
│   │         "Clickeen edits widgets. No fallbacks."         │   │
│   └─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘   │
│                              │                                  │
│   ┌──────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────┐   │
│   │                          ▼                              │   │
│   │   ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐     │   │
│   │   │  TENET 1    │  │  TENET 2    │  │  TENET 3    │     │   │
│   │   │ Widget      │  │ Orchestrators│  │ System      │     │   │
│   │   │ Files =     │  │ = Dumb      │  │ Fails       │     │   │
│   │   │ Truth       │  │ Pipes       │  │ Visibly     │     │   │
│   │   └─────────────┘  └─────────────┘  └─────────────┘     │   │
│   │                          │                              │   │
│   │   ┌──────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┐   │   │
│   │   │                      ▼                          │   │   │
│   │   │   ┌─────────────────────────────────────────┐   │   │   │
│   │   │   │           TENET 4: DIETER TOKENS        │   │   │   │
│   │   │   │   "All styling uses Dieter tokens"      │   │   │   │
│   │   │   └─────────────────────────────────────────┘   │   │   │
│   │   └─────────────────────────────────────────────────┘   │   │
│   └─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘   │
│                                                                 │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## Tenet 0: Clickeen Is an Editing Platform

Clickeen exists to **edit and customize widgets**. Users make choices, and those choices are saved exactly as made.

### Why This Matters

```
User Intent → Clickeen Saves → Embed Renders

     ┌──────────────────┐
     │   User chooses   │
     │   red button     │
     └────────┬─────────┘
              │
              ▼
     ┌──────────────────┐
     │   Clickeen saves │
     │   "red"          │
     └────────┬─────────┘
              │
              ▼
     ┌──────────────────┐
     │   Embed shows    │
     │   red button     │
     └──────────────────┘
```

If any system along this path "corrects" or "defaults" the value, the user's intent is lost.

### The Rule

**There are no fallbacks for instance identity or instance config in Clickeen.**

- If a config value is missing → the system fails visibly
- If a config value is wrong → the system fails visibly
- The widget files define everything; orchestrators pass data through unchanged

Note: request parameters (like `locale`) may have a deterministic default (Phase 1: `en`) when omitted. This is not identity and must not create DB fan-out.
Note: localization overlays are **not** “fallbacks for config.” The base config is always complete and renderable; locale overlays are applied **best-available** (base/fresh/stale) and must never break runtime or lie about the rendered locale.

### Why No Fallbacks

| With Fallbacks | Without Fallbacks |
|----------------|-------------------|
| Bug is hidden | Bug is visible |
| User sees wrong output | Developer sees error |
| Hard to debug | Easy to fix |
| AI learns bad patterns | AI learns correct patterns |

---

## Tenet 1: Widget Files Are Complete Truth

Every widget is defined by **core runtime files + contract files** in Tokyo:

```
tokyo/widgets/{widgetname}/
├── spec.json              ← Schema + defaults + ToolDrawer panels
├── widget.html            ← HTML structure
├── widget.css             ← All styling
├── widget.client.js       ← Runtime behavior
├── agent.md               ← AI editing contract
├── limits.json            ← Entitlements caps/flags for Paris validation
├── localization.json      ← Locale-layer allowlist (translatable paths)
├── layers/*.allowlist.json← Per-layer allowlists (user/geo/industry/etc.)
└── pages/*.json           ← Prague marketing pages (overview/features/etc.)
```

### What This Means

- Core runtime files contain **everything** about widget behavior
- Contract files define limits/localization; Prague pages define the marketing surface
- No other system adds, removes, or modifies widget behavior
- If it's not in these files, it doesn't exist

### Data Flow

```
┌─────────────────┐
│   Tokyo         │
│ (core files)    │
└────────┬────────┘
         │
         │ provides definition
         ▼
┌─────────────────┐      ┌─────────────────┐
│   Bob           │ ←──→ │   Michael       │
│   (Editor)      │      │   (Database)    │
└────────┬────────┘      └─────────────────┘
         │
         │ user edits instanceData
         ▼
┌─────────────────┐
│   Venice        │
│   (Embed)       │
└─────────────────┘
```

---

## Tenet 2: Orchestrators Are Dumb Pipes

Bob, Paris, Venice, and Michael are **orchestrators**. They move data between systems.

### What Orchestrators Do

| System | Role |
|--------|------|
| **Bob** | Loads widget definition from Tokyo, renders ToolDrawer, stores edits in memory |
| **Paris** | HTTP gateway to Michael (database) |
| **Venice** | Fetches instance + widget files, combines, returns HTML |
| **Michael** | Stores instanceData as JSON blob |

### What Orchestrators Never Do

- Validate widget data beyond basic JSON structure
- Apply default values
- "Heal" or mutate stored configs (beyond deterministic overlay composition)
- Know widget-specific logic
- Generate widget HTML/CSS/JS

### Diagram

```
         Tokyo (Source of Truth)
              │
    ┌─────────┼─────────┐
    │         │         │
    ▼         ▼         ▼
  Bob      Venice    Paris
    │         │         │
    │    (dumb pipes)   │
    │         │         │
    └─────────┼─────────┘
              │
              ▼
         Michael (Storage)
```

---

## Tenet 3: The System Fails Visibly

When something is wrong, the system **stops and shows an error**.

### Why Visible Failure

```
Widget Missing Field
        │
        ▼
┌─────────────────┐
│  System throws  │
│  error message  │
└────────┬────────┘
         │
         ▼
┌─────────────────┐
│  Developer sees │
│  exact problem  │
└────────┬────────┘
         │
         ▼
┌─────────────────┐
│  Fix is applied │
│  to widget file │
└─────────────────┘
```

### What This Enables

- Bugs are caught immediately
- AI agents see clear errors and learn correct patterns
- Widget developers know exactly what to fix
- No silent corruption of user data

---

## Tenet 4: Dieter Tokens Principle

All colors, typography, and spacing in widget configs use **Dieter design tokens**.

### Default Values Use Tokens

```json
{
  "appearance": {
    "headingColor": "var(--color-text)",
    "buttonBackground": "var(--color-primary)",
    "buttonTextColor": "var(--color-on-primary)"
  }
}
```

### User Overrides Allowed

Users can override with RGB/HEX values in controls:

```json
{
  "appearance": {
    "headingColor": "#FF5500",
    "buttonBackground": "rgb(100, 50, 200)"
  }
}
```

### Why Tokens First

| Benefit | Explanation |
|---------|-------------|
| Consistency | All widgets share the same design language |
| Theming | Change tokens once, all widgets update |
| AI-friendly | AI knows valid token names |
| User flexibility | Users can still use custom colors |

---

## System Architecture Overview

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                        TOKYO                                │
│              (Widget Definitions + Dieter)                  │
│                                                             │
│   widgets/           dieter/                                │
│   ├── faq/           ├── tokens/                            │
│   └── shared/        └── icons/                             │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                              │
           ┌──────────────────┼──────────────────┐
           │                  │                  │
           ▼                  ▼                  ▼
    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐
    │    BOB      │    │   VENICE    │    │   PARIS     │
    │   Editor    │    │   Embed     │    │   API       │
    │             │    │             │    │             │
    │ Compiles    │    │ Renders     │    │ CRUD for    │
    │ spec.json   │    │ widget.html │    │ instances   │
    │ to UI       │    │ + CSS + JS  │    │             │
    └──────┬──────┘    └─────────────┘    └──────┬──────┘
           │                                     │
           └─────────────────┬───────────────────┘
                             │
                             ▼
                      ┌─────────────┐
                      │   MICHAEL   │
                      │  (Supabase) │
                      │             │
                      │ Stores      │
                      │ instanceData│
                      │ as JSON     │
                      └─────────────┘
```

---

## The Verification Question

When reviewing any code change, ask:

> **"Does this system know something only the widget should know?"**

If yes → the change violates architecture
If no → the change is correct

### Canonical examples (golden path)

| Change | Why it’s correct |
|--------|------------------|
| Bob renders ToolDrawer from `spec.json` | Bob compiles the widget definition into UI; it doesn’t invent widget semantics. |
| Venice fetches `widget.html` and serves it | Venice passes through widget assets; it doesn’t mutate widget meaning. |
| Paris reads/writes instances as JSON | Paris stores and returns `instanceData` verbatim; widget semantics live in the widget package. |

---

## Platform Auto-Generated Panels

Bob automatically generates these standard panels for every widget:

| Panel | Purpose |
|-------|---------|
| **Typography** | Font families, sizes, weights for text roles |
| **Stage/Pod Layout** | Padding, alignment, width, corner radius |
| **Stage/Pod Appearance** | Background colors/fills |

These panels ensure consistency across all widgets. Widget developers use the standard structure.

---

## Quick Reference

| Tenet | One-liner |
|-------|-----------|
| **0** | No fallbacks for instance config/identity |
| **1** | 5 widget files = complete truth |
| **2** | Orchestrators are dumb pipes |
| **3** | System fails visibly |
| **4** | All styling uses Dieter tokens |
