documentation/ai/overview.md, before:

STATUS: REFERENCE — LIVING DOC (MAY DRIFT)
This document describes the intended boundary between Paris and San Francisco.
When debugging reality, treat runtime code, `supabase/migrations/`, and deployed Cloudflare config as truth.
If you find a mismatch, update this document; execution continues even if docs drift.

# System: San Francisco — AI Workforce Operating System

## The Workforce OS

**Clickeen is an AI-first company.** San Francisco is not just a feature—it's the **operating system for the company's AI workforce**.

Traditional SaaS companies need full teams to operate at scale—sales, support, marketing, localization, ops. Clickeen operates with **1 human + AI agents**:

| Agent | Role | Replaces |
|-------|------|----------|
| SDR Copilot | Convert visitors in Minibob | Sales team |
| Editor Copilot | Help users customize widgets | Product specialists |
| Support Agent | Resolve user issues | Support team |
| Marketing Copywriter | Funnels, landing pages, PLG copy | Marketing team |
| Content Writer | Blog, SEO, help articles | Content team |
| UI Translator | Product localization | Localization team |
| Ops Monitor | Alerts, incidents, monitoring | DevOps/SRE |

**Every agent learns automatically** from outcomes—improving prompts, accumulating golden examples, and evolving over time. Day 1 agents are mediocre. Day 100 agents are excellent.

See also:
- `learning.md` — How agents learn from outcomes
- `infrastructure.md` — Sessions, jobs, state management
- `BUILD_Widget.md` — AI execution guide for widget definitions
- `BUILD_PraguePage.md` — AI execution guide for Prague page composition

---

## Technical Purpose

San Francisco is Clickeen's **AI execution service**: it runs copilots and operational agents at scale, calling LLM providers and returning strictly-structured outputs.

At GA scale (100s of widgets, millions of installs), San Francisco must be **isolated** from:
- Paris’s DB authority and product entitlements logic
- The editor’s real-time in-memory edit loop

## The Core Boundary (Non‑Negotiable)

### Paris (Policy + Persistence)
Paris is the **product authority** and **DB gateway**.
- Auth, workspace membership, paid/free entitlements
- View/install limits, widget count limits, publish permissions
- Instance read/write (Michael via Supabase service role)
- Audit/billing-oriented usage records
- Issues **AI Grants** (described below)

Boundary (explicit ownership):
- LLM provider keys and model execution live in San Francisco.
- Agent orchestration (routing, prompts, tools) lives in San Francisco.

### San Francisco (Execution + Orchestration)
San Francisco is the **AI runtime**.
- Holds provider keys
- Chooses provider/model for a given **Agent** within the constraints of the **AI Grant**
- Enforces AI execution limits (tokens/$ budgets, concurrency, timeouts)
- Executes agents (copilot, support, community manager, etc.)
- Returns **structured results + usage metadata**

Boundary (explicit ownership):
- Policy, entitlements, and persistence live in Paris.
- San Francisco executes based on the AI Grant + request payload and returns structured results.

## Why This Separation Exists (GA Reality)
At scale, AI workloads are bursty, slow, and failure-prone; instance APIs must remain boring and stable.
Keeping Paris and San Francisco separate prevents:
- AI incidents from degrading instance CRUD/publish
- Frequent AI changes from forcing risky deploys of core DB logic
- Agent-security concerns (prompt injection, tool permissions) from expanding Paris’s attack surface

## Key Product Invariants
- **Editor is strict**: invalid edits are rejected immediately and surfaced.
- **AI edits are machine diffs**: editor agents return `ops[]` rather than prose instructions.
- **Provider selection is explicit**: outages return explicit errors.
- **Provider calls are server-side**: browsers talk only to Clickeen surfaces.

## Terms (Precise)
- **Agent**: A named AI capability (e.g. `editor.faqAnswer`, `support.reply`, `ops.communityModeration`).
- **AI Grant**: A signed authorization payload from Paris that defines what San Francisco is allowed to do for a subject (user/workspace) for a short time window.
- **Execution Request**: The payload sent to San Francisco containing `agentId`, input, and the AI Grant.
- **Result**: Structured output from San Francisco (`ops[]` for editor agents, or a typed payload for non-editor agents).

## High‑Level Data Flow

### Editor agents (inside Clickeen app)
1) Bob loads an instance via Paris (`GET /api/workspaces/:workspaceId/instance/:publicId?subject=workspace`, typically via Bob’s `/api/paris/*` proxy).
2) Bob requests a short‑lived **AI Grant** from Paris (`POST /api/ai/grant`) for that editing session.
3) Bob calls San Francisco with `{ grant, agentId, input, context }`.
4) San Francisco returns `{ ops[], usage }`.
5) Bob applies `ops[]` locally as pure state transforms. If an op cannot be applied, Bob fails loudly (platform bug) and the developer fixes the widget/package or copilot output.

### Operational agents (Clickeen’s internal workforce)
- A worker (or scheduled job) triggers an execution request to San Francisco using a **service grant** issued by Paris (or by an internal service issuer with Paris-level authority).
- Result is used to create tickets, draft responses, or propose actions (depending on the agent’s permissions/tools).

## Runtime Reality (what’s actually shipped)

San Francisco is deployed as a **Cloudflare Worker** and currently ships:

- Endpoints:
  - `GET /healthz`
  - `POST /v1/execute`
  - `POST /v1/outcome` (outcome attach, signed by Paris)
- Cloudflare bindings:
  - `SF_KV` (sessions)
  - `SF_EVENTS` (queue for async event ingestion)
  - `SF_D1` (queryable indexes)
  - `SF_R2` (raw event storage)
- Agent IDs currently recognized by the worker:
  - `sdr.copilot`
  - `cs.copilot.v1` (alias: `sdr.widget.copilot.v1`)
  - `debug.grantProbe` (dev only)

This matters because the “learning loop” is not theoretical: every `/v1/execute` call enqueues an `InteractionEvent`, and the queue consumer writes raw payloads to R2 + indexes a small subset into D1.

## Contracts

### AI Grant (issued by Paris)
Paris computes grants from paid/free entitlements and returns a **signed** token to the caller.

Requirements:
- San Francisco MUST verify the signature and expiry.
- Grants are short-lived (minutes), scoped (capabilities), and revocable by key rotation.
- Grants encode only allowed capabilities/budgets; pricing-tier rules live elsewhere.

Shape (conceptual):
```ts
type AIGrant = {
  v: 1;
  iss: 'paris';
  sub:
    | { kind: 'anon'; sessionId: string } // Minibob / public experiences
    | { kind: 'user'; userId: string; workspaceId: string } // Clickeen app
    | { kind: 'service'; serviceId: string }; // internal automation
  exp: number; // epoch seconds
  caps: string[]; // allowed capabilities, e.g. ['agent:sdr.copilot']
  budgets: {
    maxTokens: number;
    timeoutMs?: number;
    maxCostUsd?: number;
    maxRequests?: number; // optional session window
  };
  mode: 'editor' | 'ops'; // editor copilots vs operational agents
  ai?: {
    profile: 'free_low' | 'paid_standard' | 'paid_premium' | 'curated_premium';
    allowedProviders: Array<'deepseek' | 'openai' | 'anthropic'>;
    selectedProvider?: 'deepseek' | 'openai' | 'anthropic';
    selectedModel?: string;
    allowProviderChoice?: boolean;
    allowModelChoice?: boolean;
  };
  trace: { sessionId?: string; instancePublicId?: string };
};
```

#### Grant format (shipped)

San Francisco verifies grants using an HMAC signature shared with Paris (`AI_GRANT_HMAC_SECRET`).

Format:
`v1.<base64url(payloadJson)>.<base64url(hmacSha256("v1.<payloadB64>", AI_GRANT_HMAC_SECRET))>`

### Results (from San Francisco)
San Francisco always returns a **structured** result (never prose instructions).
- Editor agents return `ops[]` only.
- Non-editor agents return a typed JSON payload per agent.
```ts
type EditorAIResult = {
  requestId: string;
  ops: Array<{ op: 'set' | 'insert' | 'remove' | 'move'; path: string; value?: unknown; index?: number; from?: number; to?: number }>;
  usage: {
    provider: string;
    model: string;
    promptTokens: number;
    completionTokens: number;
    costUsd?: number;
    latencyMs: number;
  };
};
```

### Errors (explicit, typed)
No silent behavior changes. All failures are explicit.
```ts
type AIError =
  | { code: 'GRANT_INVALID'; message: string }
  | { code: 'GRANT_EXPIRED'; message: string }
  | { code: 'CAPABILITY_DENIED'; message: string }
  | { code: 'BUDGET_EXCEEDED'; message: string }
  | { code: 'PROVIDER_ERROR'; message: string; provider: string }
  | { code: 'BAD_REQUEST'; message: string; issues?: Array<{ path: string; message: string }> };
```

## Public Interfaces

### Paris (adds AI Grant issuance)
Paris remains the public boundary.

Shipped (dev/local in this repo):
1) **Grant issuance**
   - `POST /api/ai/grant`
   - Returns `{ grant, exp, agentId }`
   - Grant includes `trace.envStage` (ex: `local` or `cloud-dev`) so San Francisco can index learning data by exposure stage.
   - This same endpoint can be used to refresh a grant (if a session is long-lived and the old grant expires).
2) **Outcome forwarding**
   - `POST /api/ai/outcome`
   - Paris signs the payload with `AI_GRANT_HMAC_SECRET` and forwards to San Francisco `/v1/outcome` using `SANFRANCISCO_BASE_URL`.

Possible future (product ergonomics):
- Return a grant on instance load (`GET /api/workspaces/:workspaceId/instance/:publicId?subject=workspace`) to reduce one extra round trip per chat session.

Paris does NOT execute AI calls. It only issues grants and forwards outcomes.

### San Francisco (AI execution service endpoints)
This is a separate deployable service (Cloudflare Workers) from day one.

#### `GET /healthz`
Health check for deploys and local dev.

Response: `{ ok: true, service: "sanfrancisco", env: "dev|prod|...", ts: <ms> }`

#### `POST /v1/execute`
Execute an agent under a Paris-issued grant.

Request:
```json
{
  "grant": "<string>",
  "agentId": "cs.copilot.v1",
  "input": {},
  "trace": { "requestId": "optional-uuid", "client": "minibob|bob|ops" }
}
```

Response:
```json
{ "requestId": "uuid", "agentId": "cs.copilot.v1", "result": {}, "usage": {} }
```

Behavior:
- verifies grant signature + expiry
- asserts capability `agent:${agentId}` (aliases are resolved to canonical IDs)
- executes the agent
- enqueues an `InteractionEvent` into `SF_EVENTS` (non-blocking)

#### `POST /v1/outcome`
Attach post-execution outcomes (UX decisions, conversions) that San Francisco cannot infer.

- Request: `OutcomeAttachRequest` (see `sanfrancisco/src/types.ts`)
- Auth: required header `x-paris-signature` = `base64url(hmacSha256("outcome.v1.<bodyJson>", AI_GRANT_HMAC_SECRET))`
- Writes: D1 rows in `copilot_outcomes_v1`

Why it exists: San Francisco can’t infer conversions; Paris (and Bob) are the sources of truth for those moments.

## Agent Orchestration (San Francisco Core)
Orchestration is San Francisco’s “meat” and is built incrementally behind the same execution interface.

Phase‑1 (shipped orchestration surface):
- Multiple agents behind the same `/v1/execute` interface:
  - `sdr.copilot`
  - `cs.copilot.v1` (Minibob/Bob widget editing Copilot; alias: `sdr.widget.copilot.v1`)
  - `debug.grantProbe` (dev only)
- Provider/model is explicit per agent; strict errors if unavailable (no silent provider switching).
- No general “tool” system yet; any extra capabilities must be explicitly implemented inside the agent (for example: `cs.copilot.v1` includes bounded, SSRF-guarded single-page URL reads + Cloudflare HTML detection).
- Always returns structured JSON (never “go edit X” prose), plus usage metadata.

GA roadmap (still behind the same interface):
- Agent registry (configs in code or a San Francisco-owned store)
- Provider/model selection rules per agent (explicit, versioned)
- Tool allowlists per agent (e.g. `tool:analyzeUrl`, `tool:searchDocs`)
- Background execution for operational agents (queues/workers)

## Limits (Paris vs San Francisco)

### Paris limits (product policy)
Examples:
- can the user access Copilot at all?
- free vs paid feature gates
- product usage limits (views/installs/widgets)

### San Francisco limits (AI execution)
Examples:
- per-agent concurrency and throughput
- token/$ budgets per grant/session
- provider quotas and timeouts

These are different classes of limits and must not be mixed.

## Security
- San Francisco verifies grant signatures and expiry.
- San Francisco enforces capability allowlists from the grant.
- San Francisco enforces per-request budgets and concurrency.
- Bob never receives provider keys.

## Operational Specs (shipped)

### Concurrency guard
San Francisco applies a per-isolate in-flight cap to fail fast under load.
If the cap is exceeded, the worker returns `429` with `BUDGET_EXCEEDED` (this prevents tail-latency collapse).

### Event ingestion (best-effort by design)
Execution responses must not block on logging/indexing. The queue pipeline is intentionally best-effort:
- failures are logged to console
- execution still returns a structured result

### Storage layout (shipped)

- Raw event payloads (R2): `logs/{ENVIRONMENT}/{agentId}/{YYYY-MM-DD}/{requestId}.json`
- Queryable indexes (D1):
  - `copilot_events_v1` (one row per interaction; versions + intent/outcome + basic deltas)
  - `copilot_outcomes_v1` (one row per `requestId+event`; attached by Paris/Bob)

## Roadmap (milestones)

This section is a planning artifact. The shipped reality is captured in:
- “Runtime Reality (what’s actually shipped)” (above)
- `documentation/ai/infrastructure.md`
- `documentation/ai/learning.md`

### Milestone 0 — Documentation cleanup
Status: shipped (ongoing)

Definition of done:
- System boundary docs exist and are kept in sync with shipped code.
- Older narrative docs remain allowed, but must not be mistaken for runtime truth.

### Milestone 1 — San Francisco service scaffold
Status: shipped

Definition of done:
  - New service deployable exists (Cloudflare Workers).
  - Health endpoint and base `POST /v1/execute` handler exists (returns typed errors).

### Milestone 2 — Ship `sdr.copilot` (Minibob)
Status: shipped

Definition of done:
  - `agentId: sdr.copilot` works end-to-end in San Francisco
  - Response is structured JSON + usage metadata (no prose-only responses)

### Milestone 3 — Paris issues AI grants (anon + user)
Status: shipped (dev grants; user/workspace grants evolve with auth)

Definition of done:
  - Paris can issue signed grants for:
    - anon sessions (Minibob)
    - user/workspace sessions (Clickeen app)
  - San Francisco verifies signature + expiry + capabilities

### Milestone 4 — Bob uses San Francisco for AI
Status: shipped

Definition of done:
- Bob no longer calls provider APIs directly.
- Bob calls San Francisco with the Paris-issued grant.
- Errors are explicit; no silent behavior changes.

### Milestone 5 — Remove Bob-local AI route
Status: shipped (implemented as thin proxies)

Definition of done:
- Deleted `bob/app/api/ai/faq-answer/route.ts` (FAQ-only route removed).

## Open Questions (next)
- Grant transport: return grant in `GET /api/workspaces/:workspaceId/instance/:publicId?subject=workspace` vs separate `POST /api/ai/grant` (both work; choose based on desired session semantics).
- Where AI usage is recorded for billing: Paris-only ledger via an internal San Francisco→Paris report, or a later aggregation pipeline.

## Links
- Paris system PRD: `documentation/services/paris.md`
- Bob system PRD: `documentation/services/bob.md`

Commit message:

feat: layered l10n pipeline and docs

documentation/ai/overview.md, after:

STATUS: REFERENCE — MUST MATCH RUNTIME
This document describes the intended boundary between Paris and San Francisco.
Runtime code + `supabase/migrations/` + deployed Cloudflare config are operational truth; any mismatch here is a P0 doc bug and must be updated immediately.

# System: San Francisco — AI Workforce Operating System

## The Workforce OS

**Clickeen is an AI-first company.** San Francisco is not just a feature—it's the **operating system for the company's AI workforce**.

Traditional SaaS companies need full teams to operate at scale—sales, support, marketing, localization, ops. Clickeen operates with **1 human + AI agents**:

| Agent | Role | Replaces |
|-------|------|----------|
| SDR Copilot | Convert visitors in Minibob | Sales team |
| Editor Copilot | Help users customize widgets | Product specialists |
| Support Agent | Resolve user issues | Support team |
| Marketing Copywriter | Funnels, landing pages, PLG copy | Marketing team |
| Content Writer | Blog, SEO, help articles | Content team |
| UI Translator | Product localization | Localization team |
| Ops Monitor | Alerts, incidents, monitoring | DevOps/SRE |

**Every agent learns automatically** from outcomes—improving prompts, accumulating golden examples, and evolving over time. Day 1 agents are mediocre. Day 100 agents are excellent.

See also:
- `learning.md` — How agents learn from outcomes
- `infrastructure.md` — Sessions, jobs, state management
- `BUILD_Widget.md` — AI execution guide for widget definitions
- `BUILD_PraguePage.md` — AI execution guide for Prague page composition

---

## Technical Purpose

San Francisco is Clickeen's **AI execution service**: it runs copilots and operational agents at scale, calling LLM providers and returning strictly-structured outputs.

At GA scale (100s of widgets, millions of installs), San Francisco must be **isolated** from:
- Paris’s DB authority and product entitlements logic
- The editor’s real-time in-memory edit loop

## The Core Boundary (Non‑Negotiable)

### Paris (Policy + Persistence)
Paris is the **product authority** and **DB gateway**.
- Auth, workspace membership, paid/free entitlements
- View/install limits, widget count limits, publish permissions
- Instance read/write (Michael via Supabase service role)
- Audit/billing-oriented usage records
- Issues **AI Grants** (described below)

Boundary (explicit ownership):
- LLM provider keys and model execution live in San Francisco.
- Agent orchestration (routing, prompts, tools) lives in San Francisco.

### San Francisco (Execution + Orchestration)
San Francisco is the **AI runtime**.
- Holds provider keys
- Chooses provider/model for a given **Agent** within the constraints of the **AI Grant**
- Enforces AI execution limits (tokens/$ budgets, concurrency, timeouts)
- Executes agents (copilot, support, community manager, etc.)
- Returns **structured results + usage metadata**

Boundary (explicit ownership):
- Policy, entitlements, and persistence live in Paris.
- San Francisco executes based on the AI Grant + request payload and returns structured results.

## Why This Separation Exists (GA Reality)
At scale, AI workloads are bursty, slow, and failure-prone; instance APIs must remain boring and stable.
Keeping Paris and San Francisco separate prevents:
- AI incidents from degrading instance CRUD/publish
- Frequent AI changes from forcing risky deploys of core DB logic
- Agent-security concerns (prompt injection, tool permissions) from expanding Paris’s attack surface

## Key Product Invariants
- **Editor is strict**: invalid edits are rejected immediately and surfaced.
- **AI edits are machine diffs**: editor agents return `ops[]` rather than prose instructions.
- **Provider selection is explicit**: outages return explicit errors.
- **Provider calls are server-side**: browsers talk only to Clickeen surfaces.

## Terms (Precise)
- **Agent**: A named AI capability (e.g. `editor.faqAnswer`, `support.reply`, `ops.communityModeration`).
- **AI Grant**: A signed authorization payload from Paris that defines what San Francisco is allowed to do for a subject (user/workspace) for a short time window.
- **Execution Request**: The payload sent to San Francisco containing `agentId`, input, and the AI Grant.
- **Result**: Structured output from San Francisco (`ops[]` for editor agents, or a typed payload for non-editor agents).
- **Playbook**: A versioned runtime contract attached to an `agentId` via the registry (server-resolved, not client-selected).

## High‑Level Data Flow

### Editor agents (inside Clickeen app)
1) Bob loads an instance via Paris (`GET /api/workspaces/:workspaceId/instance/:publicId?subject=workspace`, typically via Bob’s `/api/paris/*` proxy).
2) Bob requests a short‑lived **AI Grant** from Paris (`POST /api/ai/grant`) for that editing session.
3) Bob calls San Francisco with `{ grant, agentId, input, context }`.
4) San Francisco returns `{ ops[], usage }`.
5) Bob applies `ops[]` locally as pure state transforms. If an op cannot be applied, Bob fails loudly (platform bug) and the developer fixes the widget/package or copilot output.

### Operational agents (Clickeen’s internal workforce)
- A worker (or scheduled job) triggers an execution request to San Francisco using a **service grant** issued by Paris (or by an internal service issuer with Paris-level authority).
- Result is used to create tickets, draft responses, or propose actions (depending on the agent’s permissions/tools).

## Runtime Reality (what’s actually shipped)

San Francisco is deployed as a **Cloudflare Worker** and currently ships:

- Endpoints:
  - `GET /healthz`
  - `POST /v1/execute`
  - `POST /v1/outcome` (outcome attach, signed by Paris)
- Cloudflare bindings:
  - `SF_KV` (sessions)
  - `SF_EVENTS` (queue for async event ingestion)
  - `SF_D1` (queryable indexes)
  - `SF_R2` (raw event storage)
- Agent IDs currently recognized by the worker:
  - `sdr.copilot`
  - `cs.copilot.v1` (alias: `sdr.widget.copilot.v1`)
  - `debug.grantProbe` (dev only)

This matters because the “learning loop” is not theoretical: every `/v1/execute` call enqueues an `InteractionEvent`, and the queue consumer writes raw payloads to R2 + indexes a small subset into D1.

## Contracts

### AI Grant (issued by Paris)
Paris computes grants from paid/free entitlements and returns a **signed** token to the caller.

Requirements:
- San Francisco MUST verify the signature and expiry.
- Grants are short-lived (minutes), scoped (capabilities), and revocable by key rotation.
- Grants encode only allowed capabilities/budgets; pricing-tier rules live elsewhere.

Shape (conceptual):
```ts
type AIGrant = {
  v: 1;
  iss: 'paris';
  sub:
    | { kind: 'anon'; sessionId: string } // Minibob / public experiences
    | { kind: 'user'; userId: string; workspaceId: string } // Clickeen app
    | { kind: 'service'; serviceId: string }; // internal automation
  exp: number; // epoch seconds
  caps: string[]; // allowed capabilities, e.g. ['agent:sdr.copilot']
  budgets: {
    maxTokens: number;
    timeoutMs?: number;
    maxCostUsd?: number;
    maxRequests?: number; // optional session window
  };
  mode: 'editor' | 'ops'; // editor copilots vs operational agents
  ai?: {
    profile: 'free_low' | 'paid_standard' | 'paid_premium' | 'curated_premium';
    allowedProviders: Array<'deepseek' | 'openai' | 'anthropic'>;
    selectedProvider?: 'deepseek' | 'openai' | 'anthropic';
    selectedModel?: string;
    allowProviderChoice?: boolean;
    allowModelChoice?: boolean;
  };
  trace: { sessionId?: string; instancePublicId?: string };
};
```

#### Grant format (shipped)

San Francisco verifies grants using an HMAC signature shared with Paris (`AI_GRANT_HMAC_SECRET`).

Format:
`v1.<base64url(payloadJson)>.<base64url(hmacSha256("v1.<payloadB64>", AI_GRANT_HMAC_SECRET))>`

### Results (from San Francisco)
San Francisco always returns a **structured** result (never prose instructions).
- Editor agents return `ops[]` only.
- Non-editor agents return a typed JSON payload per agent.
```ts
type EditorAIResult = {
  requestId: string;
  ops: Array<{ op: 'set' | 'insert' | 'remove' | 'move'; path: string; value?: unknown; index?: number; from?: number; to?: number }>;
  usage: {
    provider: string;
    model: string;
    promptTokens: number;
    completionTokens: number;
    costUsd?: number;
    latencyMs: number;
  };
};
```

### Errors (explicit, typed)
No silent behavior changes. All failures are explicit.
```ts
type AIError =
  | { code: 'GRANT_INVALID'; message: string }
  | { code: 'GRANT_EXPIRED'; message: string }
  | { code: 'CAPABILITY_DENIED'; message: string }
  | { code: 'BUDGET_EXCEEDED'; message: string }
  | { code: 'PROVIDER_ERROR'; message: string; provider: string }
  | { code: 'BAD_REQUEST'; message: string; issues?: Array<{ path: string; message: string }> };
```

## Public Interfaces

### Paris (adds AI Grant issuance)
Paris remains the public boundary.

Shipped (dev/local in this repo):
1) **Grant issuance**
   - `POST /api/ai/grant`
   - Returns `{ grant, exp, agentId }`
   - Grant includes `trace.envStage` (ex: `local` or `cloud-dev`) so San Francisco can index learning data by exposure stage.
   - This same endpoint can be used to refresh a grant (if a session is long-lived and the old grant expires).
2) **Outcome forwarding**
   - `POST /api/ai/outcome`
   - Paris signs the payload with `AI_GRANT_HMAC_SECRET` and forwards to San Francisco `/v1/outcome` using `SANFRANCISCO_BASE_URL`.

Possible future (product ergonomics):
- Return a grant on instance load (`GET /api/workspaces/:workspaceId/instance/:publicId?subject=workspace`) to reduce one extra round trip per chat session.

Paris does NOT execute AI calls. It only issues grants and forwards outcomes.

### San Francisco (AI execution service endpoints)
This is a separate deployable service (Cloudflare Workers) from day one.

#### `GET /healthz`
Health check for deploys and local dev.

Response: `{ ok: true, service: "sanfrancisco", env: "dev|prod|...", ts: <ms> }`

#### `POST /v1/execute`
Execute an agent under a Paris-issued grant.

Request:
```json
{
  "grant": "<string>",
  "agentId": "cs.copilot.v1",
  "input": {},
  "trace": { "requestId": "optional-uuid", "client": "minibob|bob|ops" }
}
```

Response:
```json
{ "requestId": "uuid", "agentId": "cs.copilot.v1", "result": {}, "usage": {} }
```

Behavior:
- verifies grant signature + expiry
- asserts capability `agent:${agentId}` (aliases are resolved to canonical IDs)
- executes the agent
- enqueues an `InteractionEvent` into `SF_EVENTS` (non-blocking)

#### `POST /v1/outcome`
Attach post-execution outcomes (UX decisions, conversions) that San Francisco cannot infer.

- Request: `OutcomeAttachRequest` (see `sanfrancisco/src/types.ts`)
- Auth: required header `x-paris-signature` = `base64url(hmacSha256("outcome.v1.<bodyJson>", AI_GRANT_HMAC_SECRET))`
- Writes: D1 rows in `copilot_outcomes_v1`

Why it exists: San Francisco can’t infer conversions; Paris (and Bob) are the sources of truth for those moments.

## Agent Orchestration (San Francisco Core)
Orchestration is San Francisco’s “meat” and is built incrementally behind the same execution interface.

Phase‑1 (shipped orchestration surface):
- Multiple agents behind the same `/v1/execute` interface:
  - `sdr.copilot`
  - `cs.copilot.v1` (Minibob/Bob widget editing Copilot; alias: `sdr.widget.copilot.v1`)
  - `debug.grantProbe` (dev only)
- Provider/model is explicit per agent; strict errors if unavailable (no silent provider switching).
- No general “tool” system yet; any extra capabilities must be explicitly implemented inside the agent (for example: `cs.copilot.v1` includes bounded, SSRF-guarded single-page URL reads + Cloudflare HTML detection).
- Always returns structured JSON (never “go edit X” prose), plus usage metadata.

GA roadmap (still behind the same interface):
- Agent registry (configs in code or a San Francisco-owned store)
- Provider/model selection rules per agent (explicit, versioned)
- Tool allowlists per agent (e.g. `tool:analyzeUrl`, `tool:searchDocs`)
- Background execution for operational agents (queues/workers)

## Limits (Paris vs San Francisco)

### Paris limits (product policy)
Examples:
- can the user access Copilot at all?
- free vs paid feature gates
- product usage limits (views/installs/widgets)

### San Francisco limits (AI execution)
Examples:
- per-agent concurrency and throughput
- token/$ budgets per grant/session
- provider quotas and timeouts

These are different classes of limits and must not be mixed.

## Security
- San Francisco verifies grant signatures and expiry.
- San Francisco enforces capability allowlists from the grant.
- San Francisco enforces per-request budgets and concurrency.
- Bob never receives provider keys.

## Operational Specs (shipped)

### Concurrency guard
San Francisco applies a per-isolate in-flight cap to fail fast under load.
If the cap is exceeded, the worker returns `429` with `BUDGET_EXCEEDED` (this prevents tail-latency collapse).

### Event ingestion (best-effort by design)
Execution responses must not block on logging/indexing. The queue pipeline is intentionally best-effort:
- failures are logged to console
- execution still returns a structured result

### Storage layout (shipped)

- Raw event payloads (R2): `logs/{ENVIRONMENT}/{agentId}/{YYYY-MM-DD}/{requestId}.json`
- Queryable indexes (D1):
  - `copilot_events_v1` (one row per interaction; versions + intent/outcome + basic deltas)
  - `copilot_outcomes_v1` (one row per `requestId+event`; attached by Paris/Bob)

## Roadmap (milestones)

This section is a planning artifact. The shipped reality is captured in:
- “Runtime Reality (what’s actually shipped)” (above)
- `documentation/ai/infrastructure.md`
- `documentation/ai/learning.md`

### Milestone 0 — Documentation cleanup
Status: shipped (ongoing)

Definition of done:
- System boundary docs exist and are kept in sync with shipped code.
- Older narrative docs remain allowed, but must not be mistaken for runtime truth.

### Milestone 1 — San Francisco service scaffold
Status: shipped

Definition of done:
  - New service deployable exists (Cloudflare Workers).
  - Health endpoint and base `POST /v1/execute` handler exists (returns typed errors).

### Milestone 2 — Ship `sdr.copilot` (Minibob)
Status: shipped

Definition of done:
  - `agentId: sdr.copilot` works end-to-end in San Francisco
  - Response is structured JSON + usage metadata (no prose-only responses)

### Milestone 3 — Paris issues AI grants (anon + user)
Status: shipped (dev grants; user/workspace grants evolve with auth)

Definition of done:
  - Paris can issue signed grants for:
    - anon sessions (Minibob)
    - user/workspace sessions (Clickeen app)
  - San Francisco verifies signature + expiry + capabilities

### Milestone 4 — Bob uses San Francisco for AI
Status: shipped

Definition of done:
- Bob no longer calls provider APIs directly.
- Bob calls San Francisco with the Paris-issued grant.
- Errors are explicit; no silent behavior changes.

### Milestone 5 — Remove Bob-local AI route
Status: shipped (implemented as thin proxies)

Definition of done:
- Deleted `bob/app/api/ai/faq-answer/route.ts` (FAQ-only route removed).

## Open Questions (next)
- Grant transport: return grant in `GET /api/workspaces/:workspaceId/instance/:publicId?subject=workspace` vs separate `POST /api/ai/grant` (both work; choose based on desired session semantics).
- Where AI usage is recorded for billing: Paris-only ledger via an internal San Francisco→Paris report, or a later aggregation pipeline.

## Links
- Paris system PRD: `documentation/services/paris.md`
- Bob system PRD: `documentation/services/bob.md`
